Hello, I am new to GitHub and currently overwhelmed by everything it's offering me to do.
Anyway, I'm here because I had a problem, that I wanted to solve. I was setting an EmulationStation with Batocera.
Everything went fine until I started Breath of the Wild and realised that I couldn't use gyro aim like I can on Windows using DS4Windows.
So I googled and quickly stumbled accross TheDrHax' modded "ds4drv". I got it working, but only when launching games directly from Cemu
and it wouldn't work after a reboot, leaving me setting it up again. I tried stuff out and long story short: Here's a workaround to make
gyro aim work on Batocera with a DualShock 4 (PS4-Controller).

The following is the final result (or a description of it), so that you know what you will get with this guide.
Also I'm notresponsible if you mess something up. That being said, let's go!

Result:
You be able to use the gyro sensor of your DS4 in Batocera on WiiU games, and possibly other emulators that might support it, dunno.
All you will have to do is connect your Controller not through the Batocera's menu, but by just pressing and holding the PLAYSTATION and SHARE buttons
until it goes into pairing mode (the LEDs flash quickly), not via USB, only Bluetooth (I think).
You will do it like this on every boot.
The controller will work as usual in every other scenario, because we basically just use a different driver. However the controller won't be listed
in the Batocera controller settings, because it's not running on the drivers integrated into the OS. It'll still work just fine though.

There is most likely an alternative way to do all of this, but I'll just explain how I got it working.

Step 1, downloading the needed drivers:
First you need to get these files onto your Batocera partition (or a USB drive or something, mainly you need to be able to access them through Batocera.
These files: https://github.com/TheDrHax/ds4drv-cemuhook

Step 2, installing the drivers:
To install the drivers you need to press F1 in your Batocera "home-screen" to open the file explorer.
Open the directory that has the drivers in it, specifically the folder with the "setup.py" file.
Run the terminal in that folder by pressing F4.
Enter the following command:
	"python3 setup.py install"
This will install the drivers. Now don't reboot, because Batocera won't save the changes you made.
If you want, you can try if the drivers are working.
To do that, start them with the following command:
	"python3 -m ds4drv --udp"
The tool will now scan for controllers and you can pair your DS4 by holding the PS and SHARE buttons until it blinks.
The LED will turn blue, when it's connected.
Now switch to the file explorer again and open CEMU through the application shortcut you can find on left.
Go to Options, and GamePad motion source. If you see something like this (AA:BB:CC:DD:EE:FF), it worked.
Click that and select "by Slot" and "also use for buttons/axes" at the bottom.
The changes you now made in Cemu will be overwritten when you launch your WiiU title from the EmulationStation/Batocera menu.
So don't do that.

Step 3, making the drivers start automatically on boot:
We want to have our drivers start automatically, so we don't have to use a keyboard all the time.
In order to do that, go to "/userdata/system/". create a new file named "custom.sh" if it doesn't already exist.
This file will contain the command, that starts the drivers, like so:
	"#! python3 -m ds4drv --udp"
This script will always be executed on boot.

Step 4, be able to use gyro when launching a game from the Emulation Station:
Launching the game from Batocera/EmulationStation will always overwrite the "cemuhook" settings you made at the end of step 2.
I found out that these settings are saved in the "cemuhook.ini" in "/userdata/system/configs/cemu".
So we need to make sure it doesn't get overwritten. First I thought to just make it "read only" but that doesn't work.
I searched for the reason it gets overwritten in the first place and here's the solution.
Navigate to "/usr/lib/python3.9/site-packages/configgen/generators/cemu".
Find and open "cemuGenerator.py", then hit CTRL+F and search for "cemuhook" until you find the following passage:
	 # Copy cemuhook for secure upgrade
         if not os.path.exists(cemu_hook) or not filecmp.cmp(cemuDatadir + "/cemuhook.ini", cemu_hook):
            shutil.copyfile(cemuDatadir + "/cemuhook.ini", cemu_hook)
Apparently, when launching games from Batocera/EmulationStation, Cemu doesn't just use cemuhook.ini but rather creates a copy to use.
I guess, I'm certainly not an expert. Anyway, we just need to deactivate two lines of code using "#", like so:
	 # Copy cemuhook for secure upgrade
         #if not os.path.exists(cemu_hook) or not filecmp.cmp(cemuDatadir + "/cemuhook.ini", cemu_hook):
            #shutil.copyfile(cemuDatadir + "/cemuhook.ini", cemu_hook)
Once this is done, save, and you will be able to launch games from Batcera/EmulationStation. But before that,
we need to make sure Batocera doesn't undo all of our work when just rebooting.

Step 5, saving the changes we made:
Open the terminal by pressing F4 (I think it doesn't matter where you open it).
Enter the following:
	"batocera-save-overlay"
You will see if the command was successfully executed.
Now you should be able to reboot the system. Check if everything works as described in the result in the beginning of this guide.
I think the changes will be overwritten once you update the OS (Batocera), but other than that it should work.
I hope I could help and I know that this is probably a very unconventional "post" or "entry" or whatever but hey, if it works, it works.
See you down the road!
Graugnarz
